MUST-DO Questions for Interviews
(DBMS, CN and OS)
(Sheet for the sole purpose of quick revision and preparation in less time)

Previous Sheets: 
SDE sheet(Over 500+ success stories): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WNtzUR_MwUQ&t=6s  

CR Sheet: 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qahaODNyI3M&t=2s 

CP Sheet: 
(used by most of the competitive programmers to practice and get practice problems) 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QtTPohzfxA8&t=92s 

Copyright: Take U Forward (Striver_79) 
Channel 1: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCJskGeByzRRSvmOyZOz61ig 
Channel 2: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCvEKHATlVq84hm1jduTYm8g 


Why trust this sheet ? 
Ans: Candidate Master, 6*, Currently working with Media.net (Directi), ex Intern at Amazon India. Major success with the previous sheets, and more importantly trusted by his “TAKEUFORWARD FAM” 

Operating System:

What is the main purpose of an operating system? Discuss different types?
 
An Operating System (OS) is an interface between a computer user and computer hardware. An operating system is a software which performs all the basic tasks like file management, memory management, process management, handling input and output, and controlling peripheral devices such as disk drives and printers.
https://www.mygreatlearning.com/blog/what-is-operating-system/
1)    Processor Management: An operating system manages the processor’s working by allocating various jobs to it and ensuring that each process receives enough time from the processor to function properly.
2)    Memory Management: An operating system manages the allocation and deallocation of the memory to various processes and ensures that the other process does not consume the memory allocated to one process.
3)    Device Management: There are various input and output devices. An operating system controls the working of these input-output devices. It receives the requests from these devices, performs a specific task, and communicates back to the requesting process.
4)    File Management: An operating system keeps track of information regarding the creation, deletion, transfer, copy, and storage of files in an organized way. It also maintains the integrity of the data stored in these files, including the file directory structure, by protecting against unauthorized access.
5)    Security: The operating system provides various techniques which assure the integrity and confidentiality of user data. Following security measures are used to protect user data:
Protection against unauthorized access through login.
Protection against intrusion by keeping Firefall active.
Protecting the system memory against malicious access.
Displaying messages related to system vulnerabilities.
6)    Error Detection: From time to time, the operating system checks the system for any external threat or malicious software activity. It also checks the hardware for any type of damage. This process displays several alerts to the user so that the appropriate action can be taken against any damage caused to the system.

7)    Job Scheduling: In a multitasking operating system where multiple programs run simultaneously, the operating system determines which applications should run in which order and how time should be allocated to each application.
 
Operating system has two componants
Shell
Shell is outermost layer of operating system
Functions of shell
 Interpreraing  user intestructions for operating sytem
Getting  output from operating system forword to user
 
Kernel
Kernerl is core component of operating system
It convert hight level instructions to low level instructions
 
 
What is a socket, kernel and monolithic kernel ?
Types of kernel
Monolithic kernel
All the system services run in the kernel space
Disadavantage
Diffult to debug
 
Micto kernel 
All the system services run in the  user space
Only the system the micro kernel is working on the kernel space
 
Hybrid kernel
Kernel space
User space
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Difference between process and program and thread? Different types of process.
https://javaconceptoftheday.com/differences-between-program-vs-process-vs-threads/
program
the executable file having set of instructions called the  program
process
the executing the program called the process
thread
the smallest executable unit of process called the thread

Define virtual memory, thrashing, threads.  
Virtual memory
Virtual Memory is a storage allocation scheme in which secondary memory can be addressed as though it were part of the main memory.
Virtual memory is a section of volatile memory created temporarily on the storage drive

Swapping 
Swapping is the process the OS uses to move data between RAM and virtual memory.

Page fault
A page fault occurs when a program attempts to access data or code that is in its address space, but is not currently located in the system RAM.

Thrashing
Thrashing is state  when the page fault and swapping happens very frequently at a higher rate, and then the operating system has to spend more time swapping these pages.

Thrashing is a state in which the CPU performs 'productive' work less, and 'swapping' more


Threads

States of process 
create
Ready
Run
Terminate
wait 
Suspended ready
Suspended wait 



Paging
Paging is a storage mechanism used to retrieve processes from the secondary storage into the main memory in the form of pages.
All pages size is same 

segmentation 
 Segmentation is a memory management technique in which the memory is divided into the variable size parts called segment
Segment corresponds to block of code , procedure , functions
Segments are varry in size


Degree of multiprogramming
The degree of multiprogramming describes the maximum number of processes that a single-processor system can accommodate efficiently.

Throughput 
Number of processes that are completed per unit time is called as throughput

Cpu utilization 
We want keep the cpu as busy as possible 

Turnaround time
The time interval between the submission of process  to time of compilation process is called turnaround time

Waiting time
Sum of time period to get cpu for execution is called as waiting time

Response time 
Time between the submission of the process and getting first response is called as response time

Burst time 
The time to execute the process completely is called as burst time


Types of scheduling 
Preemptive scheduling 
Preemptive scheduling is used when a process switches from running state to ready state or from the waiting state to ready state.

Non-preemptive scheduling
Non-preemptive Scheduling is used when a process terminates, or a process switches from running to the waiting state.

Types of cpu scheduling algorithm 
First Come First Serve (FCFS)
  Shortest-Job-First (SJF) Scheduling,
      	3) Shortest Remaining Time
 4) Priority Scheduling,
5) Round Robin Scheduling
6) Multilevel Queue Scheduling.


Semaphore  
Why does trashing occur? 
13.	What is paging and why do we need it? 
14.	Demand Paging, Segmentation
What is semaphore and mutex (Differences might be asked)? Define Binary semaphore.  
What is RAID ? Different types. 
What is a deadlock ? Different conditions to achieve a deadlock. 

What is fragmentation? Types of fragmentation. 
What is spooling ? 
What is semaphore and mutex (Differences might be asked)? Define Binary semaphore. 
Belady’s Anomaly
Starving and Aging in OS
Why does trashing occur? 
What is paging and why do we need it? 
Demand Paging, Segmentation ?

Real Time Operating System, types of RTOS. 
Difference between main memory and secondary memory. 
Dynamic Binding 
FCFS Scheduling 
SJF Scheduling 
SRTF Scheduling 
LRTF Scheduling 
Priority Scheduling 
Round Robin Scheduling 
Producer Consumer Problem 
Banker’s Algorithm 
Explain Cache
Cache is a type of memory that is used to increase the speed of data access. Normally, the data required for any process resides in the main memory.

Diff between direct mapping and associative mapping 
Diff between multitasking and multiprocessing 



DBMS: 
What is DBMS ? Mention advantages..

A Database Management System (DBMS) is defined as the software system that allows users to define, create, maintain and control access to the database.

 DBMS makes it possible for end users to create, read, update and delete      data in database.

 It is a layer between programs and data. 

https://www.tutorialspoint.com/Advantages-of-Database-Management-System

Advantages of dbms
 
Reduce data redundancy
Database security 
Database consistency
Database integrity
Security


What is Database? 

	What is Data?

Data is a collection of a distinct small unit of information. It can be used in a variety of forms like text, numbers, media, bytes, etc. it can be stored in pieces of paper or electronic memory, etc.

Database
 
Database is defined as organize collection of data 


What is a database system? 

Hierarchical database
In thise database management system in which  data is stored in thre tree like structure 
Hierachicaal format
 
Network database
	
	The network database model allows each child to have multiple parents. It helps you to address the need to model more complex relationships like as the orders/parts many-to-many relationship. In this model, entities are organized in a graph which can be accessed through several paths.
 
 
Relational database
Relational DBMS is the most widely used DBMS model because it is one of the easiest. This model is based on normalizing data in the rows and columns of the tables. Relational model stored in fixed structures and manipulated using SQL.
 
Object-Oriented database
In Object-oriented Model data stored in the form of objects. The structure which is called classes which display data within it. It is one of the components of DBMS that defines a database as a collection of objects which stores both data members values and operations.
 
 

What is RDBMS ? Properties..

 A relational database management system (RDBMS or just RDB) is a common type of database that stores data in tables, so it can be used in relation to other stored datasets

Relational Database Management Systems maintains data integrity by simulating the following features:  

Entity Integrity: No two records of the database table can be completely duplicate.

Referential Integrity: Only the rows of those tables can be deleted which are not used by other tables. Otherwise, it may lead to data inconsistency.

User-defined Integrity: Rules defined by the users based on confidentiality and access.

Domain integrity: The columns of the database tables are enclosed within some structured limits, based on default values, type of data or ranges.

Types of database languages 
https://www.javatpoint.com/dbms-language


ACID properties (VVVVV IMP)
	ACID properties and RDBMS
RDBMS follows four different properties 

Atomicity −
 This property states that a transaction must be treated as an atomic unit, that is, either all of its operations are executed or none. There must be no state in a database where a transaction is left partially completed. States should be defined either before the execution of the transaction or after the execution/abortion/failure of the transaction.
Consistency −
 The database must remain in a consistent state after any transaction. No transaction should have any adverse effect on the data residing in the database. If the database was in a consistent state before the execution of a transaction, it must remain consistent after the execution of the transaction as well.
Durability −
 The database should be durable enough to hold all its latest updates even if the system fails or restarts. If a transaction updates a chunk of data in a database and commits, then the database will hold the modified data. If a transaction commits but the system fails before the data could be written on to the disk, then that data will be updated once the system springs back into action.
Isolation − 
In a database system where more than one transaction are being executed simultaneously and in parallel, the property of isolation states that all the transactions will be carried out and executed 

Difference between vertical and horizontal scaling 





Horizontal scaling (aka scaling out) refers to adding additional nodes or machines to your infrastructure

Vertical scaling (aka scaling up) describes adding additional resources to a system so that it meets demand





What is sharding 
	Sharding is a very important concept which helps the system to keep data into different resources according to the sharding process.

In DBMS, Sharding is a type of DataBase partitioning in which a large DataBase is divided or partitioned into smaller data, also known as shards. These shards are not only smaller, but also faster and hence easily manageable.
Keys in DBMS 

Referential integrity

A REFERENTIAL INTEGRITY is a database concept that is used to build and maintain logical relationships between tables to avoid logical corruption of data. It is a very useful and important part in RDBMS.

Usually, referential integrity is made up of the combination of a primary key and a foreign key.

The main concept of REFERENTIAL INTEGRITY is that it does not allow to add any record in a table that contains the foreign key unless the reference table containing a corresponding primary key.


Super key 

The single key or group of keys which uniquely identify each rows in a table is called as super key
Super key can contain duplicate attributes


Candidate key
A single key or group of key that defined each row uniquely is called as candidate key
 All candidate key subset of the super key 

Primary key 
Primary key is candidate key
Key which defne each tuple uniquely  is called as primary key
One table cannot  have more than one primary key


Secondary key

Secondary key is also called a alternate key
Each  table have multiple keys called candidate key 
The candidate keys  other than primary key is called the secondary key and  alternate key


Composite key

Composite key   is candidate key which consiste more than one attribute is called as composite key

Foreign key

The foreign key is used to link one or more than one table together. It is also known as the referencing key. 
A foreign key matches the primary key field of another table.
 It means a foreign key field in one table refers to the primary key field of the other table.
It identifies each row of another table uniquely that maintains the referential integrity in MySQL.


Types of relationship
One to one  relationship
One to many relationship
Many to one relationship
Many to many relationship
 
Data abstraction in DBMS, three levels of it 
Indexing in DBMS 
What is DDL (Data Definition Language)
Ddl language stands for data defination language 
It is used to to define database structure and pattern
It is used to create skeleton of the tablee
Create 
Alter 
Drop 
Truncate
Rename 
Comment
 
What is DML (Data ManipSelect: It is used to retrieve data from a database.
Insert: It is used to insert data into a table.
Update: It is used to update existing data within a table.
Delete: It is used to delete all records from a table.
Merge: It performs UPSERT operation, i.e., insert or update operations.
Call: It is used to call a structured query language or a Java subprogram.
Explain Plan: It has the parameter of explaining data.
Lock Table: It controls concurrency 



Dcl command 
Grant : granting access to user to database
Revoke : take back permission to user


Tcl command
 Commit  save translation in database 
Rollback  rollback the translation in database 

What is normalization ? Types of them ..
 Normalization is a process of organizing the data in database to avoid data redundancy



What is denormalization ? 
What is functional dependency ? 
Constraint
constraints are a set of rules implemented on tables in relational databases to dictate what data can be inserted, updated or deleted in its tables. 

Functional dependency

A functional dependency is a constraint that specifies the relationship between two sets of attributes where one set can accurately determine the value of other sets
x->y
X is called as determinant
Y is called as dependent

There are four types of functional dependencies

Trivial functional dependency
In Trivial Functional Dependency, a dependent is always a subset of the determinant.
example
{roll_no, name} → name


Non-Trivial functional dependencyIn 
Non-trivial functional dependency, the dependent is strictly not a subset of the determinant.
Example
roll_no → name





Multivalued functional dependency
In Multivalued functional dependency, entities of the dependent set are not dependent on each other.
a → {b, c}

Transitive functional dependency
In transitive functional dependency, dependent is indirectly dependent on determinant.
 a → b & b → c
B is non prime attribute 
A prime attribute
C non prime attribute


Prime attribute 
The attribute which part of candidate key is calle as prime attribute

Non prime attribute
The attribute which is not part of candidate key is called as non-prime attribute


Data Abstraction
Data Abstraction is a process of hiding unwanted or irrelevant details from the end user.

Level of abstraction in dbms

Internal level or physical level
describes Actual PHYSICAL storage structure and access paths.

Conceptual level or logical level
describes Structure and constraints for the entire database

View level
Describes various user views




Aggregate functions
MySQL's aggregate function is used to perform calculations on multiple values and return 
the result in a single value like the average of all values





All aggregate function

Generalization 
Generalization is the process of extracting common properties from a set of entities and create a generalized entity from it
It is a bottom up approach

For Example, STUDENT and FACULTY can be generalized to a higher level entity called PERSON


Serialization
In specialization, an entity is divided into sub-entities based on their characteristics.
It is a  top down approach 

For example
EMPLOYEE entity in an Employee management system can be specialized into DEVELOPER, TESTER etc.

Aggregation
Aggregation is an abstraction through which we can represent relationships as higher level entity sets.

For Example, Employee working for a project may require some machinery. So, REQUIRE relationship is needed between relationship WORKS_FOR and entity MACHINERY

Indexing

Indexing is a data structure technique which allows you to quickly retrieve records from a database file. An Index is a small table having only two columns.



Types of indexing methods

Primary index
Secondary index
Cluster index

https://www.guru99.com/indexing-in-database.html











View
Views in SQL are kind of virtual tables. A view also has rows and columns as they are in a real table in the database.



Like  keyword
(_) represents one, single character
(%) starts with or ends with
a% == means string starting with a 
%a == means string ending with a
_a% == meaning string second space with a

select all customers with a City NOT starting with "b", "s", or "p":
SELECT * FROM Customers WHERE City LIKE '[!bsp]%';











Between keyword

Limit 
Offset 

What is JOIN .. Explain types of JOINs 
Inner and Outer Join

Conflict serializibility
 A schedule is called conflict serializability if after swapping of non-conflicting operations, it can transform into a serial schedule.

Conflicting Operations
The two operations become conflicting if all conditions satisfy:

Both belong to separate transactions.
They have the same data item.
They contain at least one write operation.



Concurrency control in database management

Concurrency Control in Database Management System is a procedure of managing simultaneous operations without conflicting with each other.

Concurrency control protocol 

Lock-Based Protocols
Two Phase Locking Protocol
Timestamp-Based Protocols
Validation-Based Protocols

Shared lock and exclusive lock

https://www.guru99.com/dbms-concurrency-control.html
In
The IN operator is a shorthand for multiple OR conditions.
Having 
Group by
Case


Self join
SQL statement matches customers that are from the same city:
SELECT A.CustomerName AS CustomerName1, B.CustomerName AS CustomerName2, A.City
FROM Customers A, Customers B
WHERE A.CustomerID <> B.CustomerID
AND A.City = B.City
ORDER BY A.City;

Union
Left and right table having same no of columns then only thise will work
The UNION operator selects only distinct values by default. To allow duplicate values, use UNION ALL


Drop will delete all the table 

Diff between TRUNCATE and DELETE command ..
Truccate will delete all rows 
Delete will delete were condition is satisfied



FULL OUTER JOIN and FULL JOIN are the same.
 
Difference between Intension and Extension in a DataBase

Compute Networks: 
Define network 
What do you mean by network topology, and explain types of them 
Define bandwidth, node and link ? 
Explain TCP model .. 
Layers of OSI model 
Significance of Data Link Layer
Define gateway, difference between gateway and router .. 
What does ping command do ? 
What is DNS, DNS forwarder, NIC, ? 
What is MAC address ? 
What is IP address, private IP address, public IP address, APIPA ? 
Difference between IPv4 and IPv6
What is subnet ? 
Firewalls 
Different type of delays 
3 way handshaking 
Server-side load balancer
RSA Algorithm 
What is HTTP and HTTPS protocol ? 
What is SMTP protocol ? 
TCP and UDP protocol, prepare differences
What happens when you enter “google.com” (very very famous question) 
Hub vs Switch 
VPN, advantages and disadvantages of it 
LAN 



The HAVING clause was added to SQL because the WHERE keyword cannot be used with aggregate functions.

